>> Will Sentance: At this point,
we have seen our asynchronous land.
A lot of this is hidden from us.
So we don't often know exactly how
some of these pieces are working but
we just need to know that when we use
any of these built-in features, which we
access with things like $.get, that we
access with things like set time out.
They're all setting up things
in the web browser API land,
with the associated referenced
callback function that got passed in.
That is not like our regular callbacks.
They get executed immediately
here inside their high
order function being called, no.
Instead, they get referenced
in the API space then
when they complete whatever that looks
like, the timer, the timing's completed.
If it's an HTTP request,
an XML HTTP request, API use,
we get complete when the request
returns with data and
then that associated function
added to the queue, queued up.
And then, only when our event
loop is checked successfully,
the core stack is empty, and
global has no more code to run,
do we then pass a call to the display
function, to our call stack.
And then, we call it,
with the data available to us,
from the request return response.
All right, so asynchronous callbacks.
Web browser APIs, by the way, known
in node as background threads in C++,
the callback queue and
our event loop allow us to defer our
actions to display data
functionality until our work,
maybe an API request,
maybe a timer, is completed.
And then continue running
our code line-by-line.
[INAUDIBLE] log me fast, instantly.
Asynchronous JavaScript is the backbone
of the modern web, letting us build fast,
dynamic, they're interactive
with things beyond theirselves,
but non- blocking applications.
We did not block the main thread while
we waited for that data to come back and
then call the function display
to run with that data.
Instead, we just said, continue on, and
when finally that API request completes,
then bring the associated function back
into JavaScript via the callback cue event
loop and then call stack, call it with
the data available as the argument.
That's it,
this is our asynchronous JavaScript, okay?
And now we move on.
We're almost there.
Part 1, principles, done.
Part 2, higher order functions, done.
Part 3, closures, done.
Part 4, asynchronous JavaScript,
[SOUND] done.
Done one final part,
object-oriented JavaScript.
Approaches to OOP, object-oriented
programming, in JavaScript.
OOP, an enormously popular paradigm for
structuring our complex code.
As we write more and more complex code at
scale we need to a way of structuring it.
We've seen one,
which was our functional paradigm.
But we said that there'd be an even
more popular alternative that's
been the main go-to way of
thinking about structuring and
writing our large scale code
bases over the last 25 years.
It is the object-oriented paradigm.
Why do we have a paradigm for
structuring our code?
Let's remind us, it allows us to easily
add features of functionality ideally.
When you've written some stuff,
we don't have to rewrite the whole
thing again to make it do new stuff.
Performant, it doesn't unnecessarily
use up a ton of memory, for example.
Sometimes these may actually be
intentional with each other.
And part of the principles
behind their best paradigms
is to somehow reconcile these.
For example, we want to make writing
code easy, adding features and
functionality easy.
That might have challenges in
terms of memory efficiency.
We want it to be easy for us and
other developers to reason about,
to think about exactly
how our code is working.
These are all things we want
as we write large scale code.
And the OOP paradigm,
through a number of features of it,
makes these things possible for us.
So I'll say this, for OOP, in JavaScript,
whereas for our closures,
our higher order function, our a-sync,
we can see them purposefully being
used for making a memo-wise function.
Remember that one which remembers
the last time it was run?
We can see them being useful
to use pretty immediately.
The module person, yeah,
we have to imagine why we wouldn't
want to pollute the global name space.
Remember this from yesterday,
why we have a module pattern.
OOP is harder to see instantly
why we would want it.
So we're gonna focus on one particular
thing, which is that it's easy for us
to add features, easy for other developers
to reason about if we achieve this goal.
When we're running code, we're mainly
doing functionality to some data.
That's most of the time what we're doing.
We're applying some functionality
to some data, some information.
That's mostly what we're doing.
Well that's the case.
It would be incredibly helpful if
all relevant possible functionality
that could ever be applied to
a particular piece of data
would be immediately available
to be run on that data.
Not in some separate other
part of the application,
not in some other random location,
but there on the data available.
What I mean by that is suppose we
want to imagine we're building
a mega scale application,
a quiz game with lots of users all
playing together at the same time.
Here's some of our users.
Name, Will, score, 3.
Name, Tim, score, 6.
Okay, fine,
let's imagine there's actually 100, 200,
5,000 users, each with a name and a score.
My friend, Tim,
went to school in the city.
Shoutout to Tim, there you go.
And, look at this, so functionality,
the ability to increase
the score of these users.
And I want my Will user with that data
to be able to have the functionality and
increase my score right there
available on that data.
And I want to have my Tim user have that
functionality available sort of wrapped up
somehow, bundled up, right there
on my name, Tim, score, 6, user.
And there may not just be one piece of
functionality, there may be hundreds.
But, what would be the best
way to store this data and
functionality in one sort of
easily bundled altogether way?
Griffin, what would be
a good way of doing it?
>> Griffin: The objects?
>> Will Sentance: In an object.
That's a very nice way,
storing our functions as methods and
our data as properties on objects.
That's exactly right.
Note we would in reality have a lot
of different relevant functionality,
not just increase score but could be
ability to decrease score,To delete user,
to log the user in, log it out, add
an avatar, get user score, display user.
All that functionality could
be applied to this user.
So we want to bundle up, in an object,
our data associated with the user and
our functionality.
So as we build our game,
we're gonna have users with data and
relevant functionality that
could be applied to those users.
It turns out that a really great way
of putting these all in one place
is to use an object.
Cuz what does that let us do?
It let's us do this all
powerful line here.
And throughout the rest our OOP session,
we're gonna be measuring ourselves
against can I do this line here?
As a developer writing functionality,
if I got my functions that could
be applied to a user all over the place,
I've got all sorts of question marks.
Is that function available to
run on this user at this moment?
What about, if I got my functionality,
all the functionality that could ever
be applied to that user, available
on the end of a dot, in other words,
wrapped up available on that user1 object.
This makes my life writing code
at scale far, far, far easier.
So throughout our session we
are gonna be testing ourselves.
Have we achieved this simplifying,
is simplifying gotten?
Yeah, this simplifying goal of making sure
the functionality that we could apply
to our user data, in this case user 1,
Will 3,
is available right there on the user.
The user 1 on increment,
we could imagine user 2.increment.
Is that functionality
available on the user?
This idea of binding together our data and
functions that can manipulate that
data is known as encapsulation.
Which is one of the core
features of the OOP paradigm.